README.md, before:

# MATCH THE FLAGS

![Mockup](assets/images/mockup.png)

This comprehensive site was designed for the second of four Milestone Projects that the developer must complete during the Full Stack Web Development Program at The Code Institute. The main requirements were to make a responsive page that respond to the user's actions, allowing users to actively engage with data, alter the way the site displays the information to achieve their preferred goals.
## UX

The purpose is to design an attractive website, so the players can enjoy and have fun with the game.

## User Stories
### First Time Visitor Goals
1. As a first time visitor, I want a clear understanding of the interactive game on show.
2. As a first time visitor, I want to have live scoring and a timer showing how long I take to win the game.

# Return Visitor Goals

1. As a return visitor, I want to enjoy the game.

## Design
### Colour Scheme

- The main colours used are green, white and black, to give the site a clean, modern and professional look.

### Typography

- The Fredoka one font is used throughout the website with Sans Serif.


### Wireframes

#### index.html
1. [Desktop index.html](assets/images/web.png)

2. [Mobile index.html](assets/images/phone.png)

3. [Tablet index.html](assets/images/tablet.png)
## Existing Features

#### Below is a brief overview of the website and its main features.

- Timer and Score Board

![Timer.html](assets/images/timerscore.png)

- Game Board

![Game up.html](assets/images/game.png)

![Game down.html](assets/images/game2.png)

- Play again button

![Restart button.html](assets/images/restartbutton.png)

- You Win Alert

![Alert.html](assets/images/aviso.png)



## Frameworks, Languages & Programs Used

### [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
- This developer used VSCode for their IDE while building the website.

### [BootstrapCDN](https://www.bootstrapcdn.com/)
- The project uses Bootstrap v 5.1.0 to simplify the structure of the website.
- The project also uses BootstrapCDN to provide icons from FontAwesome.
### [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/)
- The project uses Google fonts to style the website fonts.

### [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/) 
- The project uses Balsamiq to create the wireframe mockups.

### HTML 5 
- Markup language designed to be displayed in a web browser.

### CSS 3
- Style sheet language used for describing the presentation of a document in HTML.

### Javascript

- 
## Testing

### Development Testing

-  I used the Google Chrome Developer tools during the development of the website to inspect the site at different device sizes and in responsive mode.

### Manual Testing

- Memory Game

1. When the company name is clicked, it returns the user to the index.html from all pages.
2. When each link on the navbar is clicked, it takes the user to the correct page.

- Social Media Links
1. When each link is clicked, it opens a new tab.
2. When each link is clicked, it takes the user to the correct page.

- Forms
1. When submitted the form link to the correct place.

![Valid Form](assets/images/validform.png)

### Code Validation

The W3C Markup Validator and W3C CSS Validator Services were used to validate the project to ensure there were no syntax errors in the project.

- W3C Markup Validator

index.html

![Markup Index](assets/images/cssvalid.png)


- W3C CSS Validator 

![Markup CSS](assets/images/cssvalid1.png)


- Lighthouse

![Lighthouse](assets/images/lighthouse.png)

I used the Lighthouse on Google Developer Tools to check the Perfomance, Accessibility, Best Practices and SEO of the website.

- PowerMapper 

![PowerMapper](assets/images/powermapper.png)

PowerMapper was used to double-check the browser compatibility.

### Issues
- The timer starts as soon as the user enter the page, but it should start after the first click. Restarting the game makes it retart the timer.

## Deployment

This project was developed using Visual Studio Code Insiders, committed to git and pushed to GitHub using git bash terminal.

### Deploying on GitHub pages

1. Log in to GitHub and navigate to the GitHub Repository.
2. At the top of the repository, select "Settings" from the menu items.
3. At the Settings menu, select "Pages".
4. Select the main branch and the page will be automatically refreshed with a detailed ribbon display to indicate the successful deployment.

The live link can be found here - https://brunoroncete.github.io/project2/

### Forking the GitHub Repository

By forking the GitHub Repository we make a copy of the original repository on our GitHub account to view and/or make changes without affecting the original repository by using the following steps.

1. Log in to GitHub and locate the GitHub Repository
2. At the top of the Repository (not top of page) just above the "Settings" Button on the menu, locate the "Fork" Button.
3. You should now have a copy of the original repository in your GitHub account.

### Making a Local Clone

1. Log in to GitHub and locate the GitHub Repository
2. Under the repository name, click "Clone or download".
3. To clone the repository using HTTPS, under "Clone with HTTPS", copy the link.
4. Open Git Bash
5. Change the current working directory to the location where you want the cloned directory to be made.
6. Type git clone, and then paste the URL you copied in Step 3.
7. Press Enter. Your local clone will be created.

## Credits

### Code

- Bootstrap v 5.1.0: Bootstrap was used throughtout the project mainly the buttons, cards and carousel.
- FontAwesome: The icons in the footer were taken from Font Awesome.

### Media

- All images were sourced from [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/) or [Pexels](https://www.pexels.com/).
### Acknowledgements

- Student care and fellow students at Code Institute for their support.

Commit message:

adding how to play button

README.md, after:

# MATCH THE FLAGS

![Mockup](assets/images/mockup.png)

This comprehensive site was designed for the second of four Milestone Projects that the developer must complete during the Full Stack Web Development Program at The Code Institute. The main requirements were to make a responsive page that respond to the user's actions, allowing users to actively engage with data, alter the way the site displays the information to achieve their preferred goals.
## UX

The purpose is to design an attractive website, so the players can enjoy and have fun with the game.

## User Stories
### First Time Visitor Goals
1. As a first time visitor, I want a clear understanding of the interactive game on show.
2. As a first time visitor, I want to have live scoring and a timer showing how long I took to win the game.

# Return Visitor Goals

1. As a return visitor, I want to enjoy the game.

## Design
### Colour Scheme

- The main colours used are green, white and black, to give the site a clean, modern and professional look.

### Typography

- The Fredoka one font is used throughout the website with Sans Serif.


### Wireframes

#### index.html
1. [Desktop index.html](assets/images/web.png)

2. [Mobile index.html](assets/images/phone.png)

3. [Tablet index.html](assets/images/tablet.png)
## Existing Features

#### Below is a brief overview of the website and its main features.

- Timer and Score Board

![Timer.html](assets/images/timerscore.png)

- Game Board

![Game up.html](assets/images/game.png)

![Game down.html](assets/images/game2.png)

- Play again button

![Restart button.html](assets/images/restartbutton.png)

- You Win Alert

![Alert.html](assets/images/aviso.png)



## Frameworks, Languages & Programs Used

### [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
- This developer used VSCode for their IDE while building the website.

### [BootstrapCDN](https://www.bootstrapcdn.com/)
- The project uses Bootstrap v 5.1.0 to simplify the structure of the website.
- The project also uses BootstrapCDN to provide icons from FontAwesome.
### [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/)
- The project uses Google fonts to style the website fonts.

### [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/) 
- The project uses Balsamiq to create the wireframe mockups.

### HTML 5 
- Markup language designed to be displayed in a web browser.

### CSS 3
- Style sheet language used for describing the presentation of a document in HTML.

### Javascript
- JavaScript is a scripting language used to create and control dynamic website content.

## Testing

### Development Testing

-  I used the Google Chrome Developer tools during the development of the website to inspect the site at different device sizes and in responsive mode.

### Manual Testing

1. As a first time visitor, I want a clear understanding of the interactive game on show.

- A large majority of the world's population have played or understand how a memory game is played. As soon as users enter the site, it is abundantly clear what the game is and how to play it.

2. As a first time visitor, I want to have live scoring and a timer showing how long I took to win the game.

- There is a score board showing the number of matches done and a timer to show how long it's taking to win the game.

- Social Media Links
1. When each link is clicked, it opens a new tab.
2. When each link is clicked, it takes the user to the correct page.

### Code Validation

The W3C Markup Validator and W3C CSS Validator Services were used to validate the project to ensure there were no syntax errors in the project.

- W3C Markup Validator

index.html

![Markup Index](assets/images/cssvalid.png)


- W3C CSS Validator 

![Markup CSS](assets/images/cssvalid1.png)


- Lighthouse

![Lighthouse](assets/images/lighthouse.png)

I used the Lighthouse on Google Developer Tools to check the Perfomance, Accessibility, Best Practices and SEO of the website.

- PowerMapper 

![PowerMapper](assets/images/powermapper.png)

PowerMapper was used to double-check the browser compatibility.

### Issues
- The timer starts as soon as the user enter the page, but it should start after the first click. Restarting the game makes it retart the timer.

## Deployment

This project was developed using Visual Studio Code Insiders, committed to git and pushed to GitHub using git bash terminal.

### Deploying on GitHub pages

1. Log in to GitHub and navigate to the GitHub Repository.
2. At the top of the repository, select "Settings" from the menu items.
3. At the Settings menu, select "Pages".
4. Select the main branch and the page will be automatically refreshed with a detailed ribbon display to indicate the successful deployment.

The live link can be found here - https://brunoroncete.github.io/project2/

### Forking the GitHub Repository

By forking the GitHub Repository we make a copy of the original repository on our GitHub account to view and/or make changes without affecting the original repository by using the following steps.

1. Log in to GitHub and locate the GitHub Repository
2. At the top of the Repository (not top of page) just above the "Settings" Button on the menu, locate the "Fork" Button.
3. You should now have a copy of the original repository in your GitHub account.

### Making a Local Clone

1. Log in to GitHub and locate the GitHub Repository
2. Under the repository name, click "Clone or download".
3. To clone the repository using HTTPS, under "Clone with HTTPS", copy the link.
4. Open Git Bash
5. Change the current working directory to the location where you want the cloned directory to be made.
6. Type git clone, and then paste the URL you copied in Step 3.
7. Press Enter. Your local clone will be created.

## Credits

### Code

- Bootstrap v 5.1.0: Bootstrap was used throughtout the project mainly the buttons, cards and carousel.
- FontAwesome: The icons in the footer were taken from Font Awesome.

### Media

- All images were sourced from [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/) or [Pexels](https://www.pexels.com/).
### Acknowledgements

- Student care and fellow students at Code Institute for their support.
